[man]
The history
of the Civil War
was written by white men
to serve their own agenda.
It's time for a black man
to tell his own story.
This is my father's story. told the only way I know how.
The legend of Emperor.
[crickets chirping]
You sure
there's enough men?It's enough.
We have 23
well-armed men.
They only have
a few guards.
Once we get
inside the gates.
we won't have any trouble
overpowering them.
After that. it's just
a matter of time.
The slaves will rebel
and they will join us.
What if they don't come?
Have faith. son.
[sighs] Let's go.
[man shouts]
[men shouting]
[gunshot]
[grunting. shouting]
[man]
Don't let 'em break!
[groans]
[grunts]
-Open the gate.
-[officer] Pin 'em
against the wall!
[groans]
Ahh!
[gunshot reverberates]
[baby crying]
[woman singing
in African language]
[singing continues]
My sweet Shields.
You aren't a slave.
You are a prince
of a people
who come from
a faraway place.
Your grandpa was a king.
And you will be a king.
An emperor.
Nothing will dent
your will.
That's why
I named you Shields.
Mmm.
Don't forget that.
my little prince.
[horse whinnies]
Whoa.
Whoa. Good boy.
[man] Bring that nag
up 'round here.
[straining]
Uh-uh. Come on. now.
[grunting]
There you are.
Thank you.
Don't thank me.
Gotta keep Grady
off our back.
Hey.
We out of seed.
[man]
Go fill up the rest
of that bushel now.
All the way
to the top.
All right.
[woman] Go around.
against that wall.
Mr. Grady.Hmm?
We out of seed.
That ain't my problem.
What you telling me for?
"Emperor."
[chuckles]
Where are you going?
Every night.
you go out gambling
when you need to be
tending to the plantation.
[knocking]
Come in.
Evening. sir.
Ma'am.
Sarah.
We out of seed. sir.
We gonna need to get some
first thing Monday morning
or we gonna lose
a whole day's worth of work.
I'll take care of it.
Thank you.
How are you gonna
take care of anything
without any money?
I'll be leaving now.
Evening. sir. Ma'am.
[woman] How are we going
to pay for any seed
without any money?
Duvane. we are in trouble.
and if you don't
stop gambling.
we are going
to lose everything.
[Duvane]
It's gonna be okay.
I promise.
[woman] We've already lost
everything my father left us.
[woman reading story]
"Eva. due to
her kindheartedness.
decides to remain
with her..."
[reading continues.
faint]
[whispers]
Tommy.
Come on.
[owl hooting][crickets chirping]
Betty.
What's wrong?
Master Duvane.
What now?
That man keep gamblin'
the way he is.
we ain't gonna have
nothin' to plant.
Why you worry so much?
It ain't your money.
I worry about us.
You can worry
all you want to.
Ain't nothin' gonna change.
That man is just a fool.
Good night. y'all.
Good night. Aunt Betty.
She right.Mm-hmm.
Figure it out.
Same way I figured you out.
Oh. is that
what you think?Mm-hmm.
[chuckles]
Shields.
Every time
he steals a book--
Every time he steals a book.
it's another chance
to get caught.
He ain't stealin'.
he borrowin'.
It's too risky.
Master Duvane
don't care none.
When we go up north.
I want that boy
to be able to read.
I want him to be alive.
[piano playing][chattering]
[chuckling]
Looks like we got
a winner.
Mr. Henderson.
Not so fast.
I need you to lend me
some more money.
Your plantation
ain't hardly worth
what you've already
borrowed from me.
Please. You know it is.
It ain't. Between Lincoln
and this abolition talk...
plantation values
are dropping off.
Even for the ones
that don't have a slave
runnin' 'em.
Better him than a white man
you have to pay.
-Please.
-Let's be clear.
You lose this.
plantation's mine.
All right. gentlemen.
What we doing talking?
Let's play cards.
[rooster crowing]
Go on! Lead!
[horse whinnies]
[sighs][Grady] Come on.
get over here now!
Gather round.
Good day.
My name is
Randolph Stevens.
I am the new owner
of this plantation.
therefore.
your new owner as well.
Your new overseer
is Mr. Hank Beaumont.
This place has not been
run well.
Hank is going to help us
remedy that.
Hank.
Long as you work hard.
follow me
and my men's directions.
we'll get along
just fine.
If'n you don't.
well. that there
is a whole 'nother story.
You may go.
[murmuring]
Hello. sir.
What's your name. boy?
Shields. sir.
What do you do
around here?
Me. sir. I help
organize things.
Organize things?
Yes. sir.
I help supervise the work.
Look over supplies.
Well. boy. your
organizing days are over.
Come tomorrow. you gonna be
out in them fields.
I do the organizing.
Yes. sir.
What do you want?
Sir. we out of seed.
Now. in order to get
any work done tomorrow.
we need to get some.
first thing in the morning.
How much seed do we need?
We need about
three pound of seed
per acre.
How many acres
need planting?
About a third.
[murmuring]
Sir. we need about six--
I know!Yes. sir.
[chattering]
This all the seed we got?
Shields. is it?
Damn nigger told me
the wrong amount of seed
to get at the store.
Hank tells me that
we gonna be losing almost
a whole half a day's worth
of work because of you.
Don't wanna work.
you ask me.
Shields. how long
you been working here?
Since I was a boy.
-And how long you been
helping order the seed?
-Long time.
So it's not likely
you gonna get it wrong?
No. sir.
I think Master Hank
might have...
got a little confused
is all.
Yeah. but you ain't
calling Mr. Hank a liar.
Well. we want to set
a good example here.
String him up.
I didn't make
no mistake.
-[sizzling]
-[groaning]
[laughing]
Hey. come on. now.
Come on.
We just gotta save
a little more.
Till we buy our freedom.
We almost there.
[Tommy] Does it hurt?
It ain't so bad.
What you worried about
your old man for?
Hmm?
Sit down.
[sighs]
You know
I been workin'.
I got a little somethin'
stashed away.
One day soon.
I'm gonna take you
and your mama
and we gonna go up north.
We gonna be free.
You know why
they call me Emperor?
Hmm?
'Cause my granddaddy.
your great-granddaddy.
was a king.
Now. that make you
a prince. Right?
Which means one day
you gonna be a king.
[chuckles]
Is that really true?
[sighs]Hmm?
It's true to me.Mmm.
All right?Mm-hmm.
Still worried?
You sure? Huh?[laughing]
You sure?
You ain't worried? Huh?
Come on. boy.
[horse whinnying]
Well. ain't this
a novelty.
Go on.
What's it say?
Hey. hey. hey. now.
You okay?
Sarah.
Sarah. what's wrong?
[Tommy whimpering]
It ain't as bad
as it looks.
And once I put
the ointment on him.
he'll be good as new
in no time.
No. no. no.
Now. now. Shields.
listen to me.
Listen to me. Don't--
Don't do nothin'.
No. no. please.
Don't do nothin' stupid.
Please!
Shields. no!
Shields!
No! Shields!
[men laughing]
Beaumont!
[sniffs]
That boy of yours is
a little troublemaker.
[laughing]
Maybe next time.
his daddy should do
the disciplining.
I almost sprained
my wrist.
Watch it. boy.
[Grady chuckling]
You're liable to
get yourself killed.
Come on. Come on.
Aunt Betty!
[Aunt Betty]
Wait a minute!
Calm down.I need you
to watch Tommy.
Why?Why?
'Cause this
is God's country.
that's why.
We white folks.
we made in his image.
And in God's country.
I can do whatever I want.
[gunshot]
[grunting]
-[grunting]
-[gunshot]
[Hank groaning]
Whoa. whoa.
You think about this.
boy.
You do this
and you're dead.
I'm already dead.
[gasping]
[man shouting. faint]
Hear that? It's a gunshot!
[gasps]
What did you do?
Shields.
[man shouting. faint]
Shields!
We gotta go.
We gotta get Tommy.
He's with Aunt Betty.
[dog barking]
There he is!
Get Tommy.They're headed to the woods!
-[gunshot]
-[grunts]
Sarah.
-[groans]
-Hold it right there!
Sarah.
[man]
Come outta there!Sarah.
Run.
Sarah.
[dogs barking in distance]
[man] Don't let him
get away!
[barking continues]
[groans][men continue shouting]
[man] Tell Hap
to bring his horse!
[shouting continues]
[muffled shouting]
[man]
There. Up on the ridge.
[shouting continues]
[gasping]
[grunting]
[sobbing]
[rapid footsteps]
[panting]
Hyah!
[horse whinnies]
[coyote howling]
[whinnies]
Come on out now.
Hiding back there
ain't gonna do you
much good.
Hand over that body
and we won't shoot.
What y'all want
with a dead body?
That's our brother.
and we want to give him
a proper burial.
Be a shame to bury him.
He's worth $200.
He's worth $200?
Heck. we should think about
turning him in ourselves.
-What's wrong with you. Sam?
That's our baby brother.
-I'm just saying.
What difference
does it make?
He's dead as a doornail.
What if Ma
heard you right now?
How can you think
about money
at a time like this?
'Cause we ain't got none.
[gun cocks]
What'd you kill him for?
He wasn't worth nothin'.
I tell you what.
I'll give you
the same chance
I gave your brother.
Now. either you can fire
that there rifle...
or you can run.
[grunts]
[panting]
[chattering]
[horse whinnies]
[Grady]
As for me. you know.
hell. I can go
get a job anywhere.
This ain't my first time
doing this.
You know what I'm saying?
I just couldn't believe it.
I couldn't believe they
let him get away like that.
If I'd been there.
whole different story.
Now. you take this bunch
right here. Look at 'em.
In line. stepping along.
keeping the rows.
If I'd been there
and that nigger went crazy.
Beaumont would still be alive
and that nigger'd be dead.
[groans]
[panting]
[bird call]
[man] Just don't know
if he got this far.
He could've made down
to the Ashley River.
[conversation continues.
faint]
He couldn't get
quite as far on foot.
[gasps]
Turn around.
We've been here.
Might be something
over there.
Things here open up.
gonna be able to see him
if he's down there.
Hey. come on.
You don't talk much.
do you?
They cut your tongue?
What for?
Talk too much.
You've been
hidin' out here?
This the Hellhole Swamp?
I heard about this place.
They say a lot of runaway
live out here.
[sighs]
I can't stay here.
I gotta get north.
It's the only way
I can free my son.
You know about
the Underground Railroad?
[hoofbeats]
[horse whinnies]
You ain't out there
to rob me. I ain't liable
to hurt you. neither.
Hello. sir.
I was. uh.
headed to Greensboro.
I was wondering
if you could point me
in the right direction.
What business you got
in Greensboro?
My own.
Can you help me or not?
You the one
them white folks
is looking for.
No. sir.
You must've
got me confused
with somebody else.
No. I don't neither.
No. you's him.
Yeah. but don't you worry.
Your secret's safe with me.
Everybody talking
'bout you.
Yeah.
But if you come with me.
I can help you find a place
to hide out
and lay your head down
for a night or two.
Also get some food
in your belly
'fore you head on
to Greensboro--
that's a long way.
What about your master?
Oh. he-- he away
with family out west.
You'll be gone before
anybody know a thing.
Why is you offering
to help me?
I like what you doing.
I'd do it myself
if I was younger.
It'd just be nice
if you could live through it.
Name's Shields.
I know who you is.
Emperor. [chuckling]
Everybody know who you is.
Truesdale. they call me.
[chuckles]
Come on. Jay.
Who's that?
[Truesdale]
Who does it look like?I don't know.
I don't want to know.
That's the fella
everybody been
talking about.
The one that killed
them white folks?
[Truesdale] Yeah.
What'd you bring him
here for?
So he can rest for a minute
'fore he go on his way.
This ain't a hotel.
Anyone find out about this.
we gonna be in trouble.
Nobody saw us.
Everybody gone.
You gotta go.
You can't stay here.
Now. Delores.
now. if you don't
let him be.
I might have to tell
Master Reed
about you sneakin' them sweets
out the kitchen every evenin'.
That candy ain't nothin'
compared to this.
Yeah. but it's enough
to get you some lashes
and you know
you ain't got the stomach
for no whuppin'.
[chuckling]
Ain't no good gonna
come out of this.
Oh. hush. Go in there
and fix our guest a bath.
Ain't you got no manners?
[chuckling]
Go on with you.
So...
true what they say?
What'd they say?
Say you killed
a bunch of white folk.
What's it matter?
It's a sin.
God gonna punish you.
Way I see it.
God done punish me
for things I ain't even done.
Why you do it?
They beat my son.
You killed a white man
over that?
That happen every day.
I took lashes
my whole life.
Kept my head down.
Didn't cause no trouble.
Thought that'd keep
my family safe.
But when I seen
what they did to Tommy...
when I seen the life
ahead of him...
I don't want him
to be like me.
-You's a brave man.
-No.
I'm a fool.
I didn't think.
I just went crazy.
Because of me.
because of what I did.
my wife--
my wife's dead.
Sorry.
I shouldn't
have judged you.
It's all right.
Anything else you need?
No. ma'am.
[whip cracking]
-[Sarah screams]
-[gasping]
[thunder rumbling]
Hey. there.
You leaving?
Thought I'd get
an early start.
Get on the road.
Yeah. you oughta
stick around.
Delores can cook you
some eggs.
Got a long road
ahead of me.
Best I get going
before it get too late.
Listen.
I just want to thank you
for your hospitality.
Don't thank me yet.
You worth too much money
to just let you walk away.
Now. you and me
gonna sit right here
and wait for your master.
Get on over here.
Get on over here
and open up this cage.
I hate to do this to you.
That reward money for you
is gonna buy me my freedom.
Go on. get up in there
with them pigs.
[pigs squealing]
[groaning]
Come on.
Open it up.
You gots
to get outta here.
That gunshot's gonna
send the overseers.
They gonna be here any minute.
-Tell 'em
I killed Truesdale.
-What? No.
Hey. listen to me. now.
Come on.
One more body
make no difference.
They think you did this.
they gonna hang you
for sure.
Take Truesdale's horse.
Go on. now. go.
Thank you.
Randolph's
murderous nigger
is just a symptom
of a larger problem.
You're damn right.
This is liable to
lead to a rebellion.
That's just what we need
with all this
abolition talk up north.
Do you think folks in Boston
care any more about slaves
than we do?
They just need labor
for their factories.
Why don't you kill his boy?
That'd set a good example.
I've already lost
one slave.
I'm not destroying
any more of my property.
You all may be
in the business
of casting blame.
but I am in the business
of finding solutions.
Sir. step in. please.
Gentlemen. Adel.
Mr. Luke McCabe.
the best bounty hunter
in the state of Texas.
Heard you got a problem
with a runaway slave.
This nigger is rampaging
the countryside.
stealing from.
raping and killing
good God-fearing white folks
like it ain't nothing!
Tom. show him
the poster. please.
$1.000.
A thousand dollars?
[scoffs]
That's more than twice
what he's worth.
Well. the way I figure.
it's not about one slave.
The longer he keeps it up.
more likely
you got yourselves
a rebellion
across five states.
Not that it makes
a difference to me.
of course.
Luke. give us
one moment. please.
[Adel] I'll give you $100.
Not a dime more.
[man] It's the principle.
I'm in.
[man 2] I want to catch him.
so I'm in.
We have no choice.
I'm in.
All right. Luke.
But if we're gonna be
spending that much money.
I'm afraid I'll have
to insist one of my men
goes with you.
[snoring]
[cork pops][sniffs]
[sputtering]
[gasps] The hell?
Shields. You knew him?
Yeah. yeah. I knew him.
Ow.
Go on. now.
He's a nigger.
They's all the same.
That man
escaped your plantation
and single-handedly killed
three of your men.
Now. that sounds
pretty extraordinary to me.
So. how about you tell me
something useful?
He was smart. I guess.
Smarter than
most white folk even.
He just about run things
around here
till Hank come along.
And they called him Emperor.
He had an attitude
to back it up.
What you know
about the Railroad?
The Underground Railroad?Mm-hmm.
Just a way for a bunch
of nigger-lovers to--
Pardon me.
abolitionists--
to get runaways up north.
[chuckles]
[Randolph]
It ain't no use.
White men don't know anything
about the stations.
I wasn't planning
on asking no white man.
[chattering]
This man here made it
all the way to Pennsylvania
before these old boys
nabbed his ass.
Please
don't kill me. sir.
Please.
Don't kill me. please.
If anybody knows.
it's him.[whimpering]
What's your name?
Henry. Henry. sir.
Well. Henry.
I just negotiated your life
with the sheriff here.
Oh. thank you.
All you gotta do
to get this here noose
off your neck
is point out
all the houses
along that
Underground Railroad
of yours.
Can you do that for me?
[gasps]
I don't--
I don't know nothing
about no railroad. sir.
Suit yourself.
[McCabe] Gentlemen.
[whimpering]
Please don't kill me. sir.
Please.
[sobbing]
Wait!
Show me that map
again. sir.
[church bell tolling]
[chattering]
[breathing heavily]
[chattering. chuckling]
[gun hammer cocks]
[man] Get him!
-[gunshot]
-[woman screaming]
[man] Hellfire!
Get out the street!
[man] Come on.
move. move!
-What the hell you doin'?
[gunfire]Shit!
I just robbed the bank.
This is my wagon.
You gotta go.
-I can shoot.
-[gunfire continues]
Other gun is in the bag.
Careful with the gunpowder.
Git! Go![horse whinnies]
Hey. What's happening?
Some nigger
just robbed a bank.
How you know it's him?
[horse whinnies]What in the world?
Holy mackerel!
We lost 'em.
Whoo!
Looks like you and me
got something in common.
I'm Rufus Kelly.
Maybe you heard of me?
Can't say I have.
I'm a famous bank robber.
Yeah? How many banks
you done robbed?
Three.
Well. no. two.
including this one.
You always bring
a loaded wagon
to a robbery?
I ain't never been
chased before.
[chuckles]
I guess I learned my lesson.
Mm-hmm.[exhales]
We make a good team.
You ever considered going
into the outlaw business?
Boy. I got the whole South
chasing me.
I'm already an outlaw.
No shit. You might as well
make some money at it.
[men whooping. yelling]
They found us.
Shit. Here. drive. Drive!
[gunshots]
[hammer clicks]
[whinnies]
[groans]
[gunshot][groans]
[gunshot]
You're hit.
[groans]
Hyah!
We're falling apart.
We gots to ditch the wagon.
Get on the horse.
Goddamn it.
this is my house.
[gunshot]Shit!
Did we get 'em?
[grunting]
Fuckin' gutshot.
[groans]
Can't be no outlaw
without gettin' shot
at least once.
You think I'm gonna
get credit for this one?
I's thinkin'
front page news.
for sure.
I can't wait to see my face
on a wanted poster.
Boy. you's gonna be
a legend.
Sure wish I had
a shot of whiskey for this.
[chuckles] Me. too.
All right.Wait. Wait.
You could've left me
and took the cash.
but you didn't.
Why not?
You need me to get
some heat on that wound...
'fore it get infected.
You hear?
If I make it...
we split the loot 50/50.
And if not...
spend it on something nice.
Hey. now.
You gonna make it out.
Okay.
All right?Yeah.
Look at me.
Come on.
On three. One...
-[sizzling]
-[muffled screaming]
[rustling]
Rufus.
What you doin'
with that?
Hush. I'll put it back
soon as Tommy read it for us.
What it say?
It say he rob a bank.A bank?
Good God from Zion.
He ain't in enough trouble.
now he's gonna rob banks?
They couldn't catch him.
He got away.
Read on. read on.
It said a bounty
on his head.
Thousand dollars.
A thousand dollars?Oh. good Lord.
[whistles]
Shields?
You Levi Coffin?
You got half the state
looking for you.
Wasn't my intention.
Just running for my life.
Come on in.
It's not safe
for you to stay here.
I ain't fixin' to stay.
I just need you
to point me
to the next station.
What do you expect's
gonna happen
once you get up north?
You're not just
a runaway slave anymore.
You're a symbol.
And they're not gonna stop
until they make you pay.
And your escape.
and your escapades.
and your exploits...
are putting
your own people.
as well as all the others
that are helping.
at risk.
You've gotta go
to Harpers Ferry.
What's there?
An abolitionist
who's caused
a lot of mayhem
in Lawrence. Kansas.
His name's John Brown.
But now the rumor has it
he's headed here
with a militia.
and they're gonna fight.
Fight?
Fight for what?
To end slavery.
I ain't fixin'
for no fight.
I's just tryin'
to free my son.
-[horse whinnying]
-Shh.
You hiding a runaway
in here?
We have reason to believe
a runaway slave's
residing on your premises.
You mind if we come on in
and have ourselves a look?
Course I mind.
-You have no right
to come in here--
-Save it. old timer.
He ain't just
a runaway slave.
He's a murderer...
a horse thief...
and a bank robber.
You know
we're gonna find him.
When I tell you.
you fire on that here wall.
Don't hit me.
[gunshots]
[Grady] Dang it!
Goddamn it!
Get the horses.
I think he crossed
the damn river.
Gonna make the job
a lot harder.
He's in Maryland now.
So he's free?
For now.
God--
[owl hooting][crickets chirping]
[guns cocking]
You looking for this?
Round these parts.
colored folks ain't allowed
to possess firearms.
Well. I guess
I'm in trouble. then.
Well. now. that'd be
mighty hypocritical of us
considering...
Wait.
I know who you is.
You're John Brown.
I reckon that means
you must be Shields Green.
These are two of my sons.
Oliver and Watson.
If you've done half
of what they say
you've done.
we're gonna get along.
And this here is
Dangerfield Newby.
He's just joined
our cause.
Glad to see you
made it this far.
Yes. sir.
You should
come with us.
I got a friend
I'd like you to meet.
That who I think it is?
That's right. son.
That's Frederick Douglass.
We'll march
on Harpers Ferry
and take
the federal armory.
John--The time is now.
Frederick.
This is not
what we discussed.
You said you wanted
to march Virginia slaves
to the Appalachia.
Foolhardy. yes.
but within the realm
of possibility.
But this.
This is a steel trap
from which
you will not escape.
When we strike.
and the slaves in the
surrounding plantations
hear of our victory.
they will know
we have the means to fight.
Frederick.
I need you to help us.
You're a brave man. John.
You're risking your life
and the lives of your sons.
But your optimism is
a luxury afforded to you
by the color of your skin.
If you go through
with this.
you will only serve
to make them hate us.
They already hate us.
Who is this?
This is Shields Green.
Ah.
Emperor.
What are you
doing here?He came to join our cause.
Do you realize you're going
to get yourself killed?
Our deaths will be
the spark that lights
the fuse of rebellion.
It's easy for you
to say that.
The white men
among your ranks
can easily disappear
back into
their old lives.
But the Negro men
will be forced to suffer
the full consequences
of your actions.
What you see as nobility
in their deaths.
they see only as futility.
What do they have
to lose. Frederick?
If you follow through
with this.
you'll be risking
all these lives.
Think of your legacy.
I think of nothing else.
I needs to ask you a favor.
No matter what happen to me.
I need you to take
this here money
and buy my son's freedom.
[Douglass]
How does it feel?
What?
Freedom.
I still remember
my first day.
I don't know.
Cost me everything.
I can get you papers.
A whole new identity.
And send you up
to Canada.
You'll be safe there.
Safe?
What is more important.
Frederick?
Freedom for one man.
or freedom for all men?
[sighs] This man
will never be a slave.
Yet he's willing
to risk his life
and the life of his sons...
so we can be free.
No. sir.
I cannot sit idle while
this man fight for me.
We can't all fight this war
with the pen. Mr. Douglass.
Some of us best equipped
to fight this war
with a gun.
I think I'll go
with the old man.
It's an honor.
I do this for my son.
[gunshots]
[shouting]
[grunting]
[whispers]
John. are you all right?
Your son would be proud
of what you did today.
Is it true what they say?
That you're descended
from royalty?
[sighs] Well...
that what my mama
used to say.
[chuckles]
Don't make no difference
if it's true or not.
Slave. master. king...
they all the same to me.
Hmm.
Better get some rest.
Good night. sir.
Dangerfield.
Hey. Dangerfield.
What you reading. boy?
These the letters
from my sweet thing.
[chuckles] Yeah?
Yeah.
Soon as we settle up here.
I'm gonna go back
and I'm gonna free her
and all my kids.
What about you?
What you fixin' to do?
It ain't my fault.
you know.
All's I'm sayin' is.
gettin' in shoot-outs
ain't my vocation.
Just 'cause I hesitated
a little bit.
that don't make me yellow.
-[man] Gonna teach
that old boy a lesson.
-[chattering]
Militia.
Bored farm boys
itchin' for somethin' to do.
[chattering continues]
Where's all
the excitement?
Crazy abolitionists
took over Harpers Ferry.
Marines is on their way.
We're goin' to help 'em.
Abolitionists.
you say.That's right.
Dad. Dad.
What? What?
They're here.
Oh!
[Oliver chuckles] Whoo!
[laughing]
Come on.
Open the gates![man] Open the gates!
-They're here!
-[cheering]
I knew it.
[man]
Open the gates!
How many?
Close the gates.
-Sir?
-I said close the gates!
[Dangerfield]
Close the gates!
I demand to speak
to the man in charge.
I am Osawatomie
John Brown.
I am in charge.
Mr. Brown.
I'm Lieutenant Colonel
Robert E. Lee
of the United States Army.
I'm here on orders by
President James Buchanan
to demand that you
and your outlaws
surrender this fort.
I'm willing
to offer leniency
in exchange for
a peaceful surrender.
I hate to disappoint you.
Colonel.
but you're not likely
to get a peaceful anything
from us.
Not while that abomination
called slavery
is still the law
of this land.
Not when Negro blood
flows in our rivers
and irrigates our crops.
Not till every last man.
woman and child
is freed from their chains
will we ever surrender.
You are evidently
a man of passion.
Mr. Brown.
I can respect that.
But I'm not here
to make moral judgments.
I'm here
to enforce the law.
And I am here to enforce
a higher law.
extolled. you might recall.
in the Declaration
of Independence...
that all men
are created equal.
Need I remind you.
Mr. Brown.
that the man
that penned those words
was a slave owner.
Are you accusing
Thomas Jefferson.
one of our
founding fathers.
of being a hypocrite?
The way I read it.
he didn't think
colored people were men.
Who is it decides
who is a man or not. Colonel?
Almighty God
or Thomas Jefferson?
I'll go with God.
So I'm to take it
you'll not go down
without a fight.
Take it as you will. sir.
So be it.
-Send 'em in.
-[officer] Yes. sir.
Company. forward march!
Ready! Aim! Fire!
To the left.All right.
-[men shouting]
-Move! Come on!
[officer] Fire!
[groans]
[officer] Reload!
All right. fire.Get the end.
Let's get 'em!
[officer shouts]
[screaming]
[officer continues
shouting]
[grunts]
[gasping]Wat?
Watson's been shot.
-What?
-[gunshot]
[officer] First squad
on the bridge now!
Breach the gate!
-[gunshot]
-[groans]
[sobbing. gasping]
[loud thud]
-[men grunting]
-[officer]
Put your shoulders in it!
To the gate!
[men shouting.
grunting][loud thudding]
They didn't come.
No.
What do we do. John?
To the catacombs!
[men continue grunting]
[officer]
Come on. boys!
[loud thud]
[thudding stops]
-[men shouting]
-[gunshots]
Oh. hell. Luke.
We should go.
We too late.
Right now.
he's thinking of slipping
out of the backdoor
in the hoopla.
Let's go.
[groans]
[gunshot]
[screaming]
[grunting]
Round 'em up.
[horse whinnies]
[groans][footsteps approaching]
[man] I'm afraid it's
a little late in the day
if you're here for food.
You're hurt. my son.
Whoa!
Shh. Don't speak.
Don't speak.
Here's some food
and warmth for you.
Here's some water.
Must get some rest.
Father.
Thank you.
[groans]
Reverend.
We's looking
for a runaway slave.
His trail led us...
to your church.
Well. this is
a place of worship.
This is no--
no shelter for--
for runaway slaves.
Lying's a sin. Reverend.
You keep lying.
you might face judgment day
before you get
a chance to repent.
Militia's coming down
the road to meet us.
Gonna get real bloody.
You know.
if you work with us...
you could earn yourself
some money.
What say you.
Reverend?
Well. I think that...
the church could always
use a donation.
Well. God bless.
[chattering]
Huh. Look at
all these damn nimrods.
Looking for their piece
of the notorious Emperor.
I'll handle this.
[exhales]
[gunshot]
Damn it! My ear!
You idiot!
I-I-I got nervous.
with his reputation
and all.
You're in charge
of these yokels.
You.Yeah.
Bring your three
best men. Let's go.
Douglas. Paul.
[groans]
[grunts]
[screams]
[grunting]
[groans]
[clanging]
[screams]
Sir. I'm here to see
the owner of this plantation.
Randolph Stevens
at your service. sir.
I am here to buy the boy.
Well. tell me. Levi.
why should I sell you
the son of a man
who cost me so much?
Because I'm gonna pay you
four times what that
little boy is worth.
[Aunt Betty] Tommy!
I have a man here
who wants to meet you.
You're Tommy.
Levi Coffin.
Did you know my father?
He's the one
who sent me.
Why?
He wanted you to have
what meant
the most to him.
Daddy?
You're safe now.
We gonna be free.
Let's go.
[church bell tolling][children shouting]
[horn honks]
[clears throat]
Could you please read this
and tell me if
you can publish it?
I've heard you're good
with Civil War books.
Is this a Civil War story?
Well. sort of.
It's my father's story.
Did he fight
in the Civil War?
He helped to start it.
Is that so?
Is this a true story?
Yes. it's true to me.
[woman]
♪ There's something better
I know there is♪
♪ Than this pain I'm in♪
♪ Somehow
I'll get through it♪
♪ There's something strong
That's inside me now♪
♪ I'm not going down♪
♪ Somehow I will do this♪
♪ I'll get through
The night♪
♪ To the day that's waiting♪
♪ On the other side♪
♪ On the other side
On the other side♪
It's waiting for me♪
♪ On the other side
There's a better life♪
♪ There's the brightest day
After the darkest night♪
♪ I'll get there♪
♪ It's been a hell
I've been living in♪
♪ I'm not giving in♪
♪ Somehow I'll survive this♪
♪ I'll get myself
Where I need to be♪
♪ Feel how freedom feels♪
♪ Somehow I will find this♪
♪ I'll get through
This fight♪
♪ Peace of mind
Will find me♪
♪ On the other side♪
♪ On the other side
On the other side♪
It's waiting for me♪
♪ On the other side
There's a better life♪
♪ There's the brightest day
After the darkest night♪
♪ I'll get there♪
♪ Oh. I'll get there
♪ I'll get past this pain
I'm feeling now♪
♪ I won't let it
Keep me down♪
♪ I'll rise above it♪
♪ And get through the night♪
♪ To the day that's waiting♪
♪ On the other side♪
♪ On the other side
On the other side♪
It's waiting for me♪
♪ On the other side
There's a better life♪
♪ There's the brightest day
After the darkest night♪
♪ I'll get there♪
♪ Oh. I'll get there♪
♪ Yeah. I'll get there♪
♪ I'll get there♪
[vocalizing]